Basic Terms:
assume that you have the following expression:
2x^2 * 4y - 12
Term: is the parts that are seperated by the addtion operation
Factors: are seperated by multiplication

12 -> is called a term and 2x^2 * 4y is also a term
a term is basically a small expression that either has a minus or plus sign
  mm, m,6456M
12 -> is also called a constant cause it has a constant value that will never change
4y -> y here is called a linear term cause the relationship between x and y is a straight growing line
2x^2 -> is a non-linear term cause the relationship between x and y is not a straight line

4y -> 4 here is called a coeffcient cause it's multiplied times a variable.

Distributive Property:
if we have an expression like that 4*15 we can also write in an easier way to help evaluate the expression: 4(5+10)
the way we solve this is by distributing the 4: 4*5+4*10
we normally use the distributive property to simplify expressions.

NOTE: if we have -1(4x-5) it's written as -(4x-5) the -1 is implied here.

One-Step Linear Equations:
equations that has one operation or step to be done in order to solve the equation for example: 2x = 12

Two-Step Linear Equations:
equations that involve more than one term or more than one operation to be done for example: 2x - 10 = 50, here we have: 1.multiplication and 2.subtraction.

Identity Equations:
is when simplification lead to the absence of the variables in the equations and that will lead us to 2 possiable conclusions:
1.if the numbers left on both sides are equal so that means that the equation has inifinite number of solutions and x can have any value or in other words the solution is the entire set of real numbers
2.if the numbers left on both sides are not equal so that means that the equation has no solution.

Conditional Equations:
is when an equation has an finite number of solutions

Proptions:
is when you have fractions on both sides of the equation and it turns out that there is an easy way to solve it using cross multiplication.

Literal equation:
example: y = mx + b
for example:
vt = d, solve for t:
1/t * vt = d * 1/t
v = d/t

Inequality:
-Represents a relationship between two objects but the order matters.
-inequalities have infinite number of solutions the solution is that; we need to use the number line graph 📉

Should be solved just like equations but we have to consider the following things:
1.order matter
2.we have to graph it on a number line
3.when multiplying or dividing by a negative number you have to flip the sign

Compound inequality:
is a way to decsribe the values between 2 numbers
so for example if you have x which is greater than 5 and less than 10 you can write it like that:
 x > 5 and x < 10   this is the first way to write it
 5 < x < 10         this is the second way to write it

compound inequality can also represent values that are not in between 2 other numbers for example:
  x < 0 or x > 7  

Solving compound inequality:
1.first we need  to seperate both inequalities
2.solve each one seperately
3.then combine them again as a compound inequality

Sets:
a bunch of elements has any order, elements can be numbers, ordered pairs or pretty much anything else.

Sequences:
a bunch of elements written in the order they appear.
always starts from the first changed figure.

Domain and Range:
are like input and output or a relationship between 2 objects can be represented in a varity of ways such as: ordered pairs, set, sequence, table, graph and a mapping.
so the input is what we call a domain and the output is what we call the range.
when writing the domain and range we write them as follows:
NOTE: the order does not matter and we don't have to write the repeated element twice.

Domain: {-3, -2, -1, 0, 1}
Range: {-25, -18, -11, -4, 3}


Linear Functions:
can be represented by a sequence in which everynumber is added or subtracted to create the next term.

there are 2 questions that needs to be answered in order to fully describe a linear function:
1.what value to start with? (initial value)
2.what value do i need to add or subtract to get to the next term?(rate of change)

Relations:
is a connection between 2 peices of data where the first piece of data is called the domain and the other one is called the range.

Function:
is a relation in which each element of the domain is connected to only one element of the range.

-when determining whether some points on a graph represents a function or not there is an easy way to test that by using something called the vertical line test which is described as follows:
run a vertical line across the graph and if more than one point touchs that line then the relation is not a function.


Function notation:
x -> input (aribitrily chosen it could be anything else)
f -> function name
y -> output

f(x) = y means that we are evaluating functions when giving it a specific value "x" in this case.

we can also use functions with equations like this:
f(x) = x + 2
and this is called a function rule. 


Intervals:
is the space between two locations and is used to describe the domain values and we use compound inequality to write the interval.

the interval can be in one of 3 states:
-Increasing: if the starting range point is less than the end range point of the interval so that means that the interval is increasing.
-Decreasing: if the starting range point is larger than the end range point then of course the interval is decreasing.

-Staying Constant: if the starting range value is the same as the end range of value of the interval so that means that the interval is constant.


Discrete Data:
is a set of data in which the numbers can only have certain disconnected values. can be represented as a set of numbers and list all of possible domain values. (discrete function)

Continous Data:
is a set of data in which the numbers can have any value in a certain range. cannot be represented as a set of numbers as we have to list inifinte amount of numbers so we use inequality to represent these ranges. (continous function)

Qualititve Graphs:
Qualitive Data is data that does not depend on numbers
Quantitive data is data that depends on numbers

Linear Functions:
From graph:
the function should be in a straight line with no changes in that line

From equation:
1.no term is raised to a power larger than 0 or 1
2.no divding by variable
3.no variable as an exponent
4.no operation besides mul, divison, addtion, subtraction

From table:
we have to calcuate the slope between the points and if the slope is equal then it's linear otherwise it's non-linear.
we can caluclate the slope by the following formula:
slope = y2 - y1 / x2 - x1

Y-intercept:
is the y value when x = 0 and it's also called initial value.
to identify the y-intercept from the following representations:

1.from graph
where the graph crosses the y-axis

2.from a table:
when a point has an x value of 0

3.from an equation:
the constant term in an equation that look like that y = mx+b

the slope:
is the Steepness of the graph line describes the output of the relationship between the x axis values and the y axis values. sometimes also called "the rate of change".

we can calculate it from:

1.from an equation:
the slope is the coeffcient of the linear term in an equation like this: y = mx+c
m is the slope

2.from a graph and from a table:
using the equation

Linear Functions:
is a relationship between 2 variables in which one variable changes at a constant rate.

Graphing a linear function:
1.using 2 points:
just plot the 2 points and connect them via a line

2.using a point and the slope:


Functions classic classifications:
-power functions:
y = x^n where n is [0, inifinty[
x = R

-polynomial functions:
linear combination of power functions with n non-negative

-rational functions

linear combination:
a number of n terms that is raised to only the power of 1 and each term consist of only 1 variable multplied by a constant

3 types of linear equations:
1.slope intercept form:
example:
y = 3x+2
general form:
y = mx+b

2.point slope form:
example:
y-6=3(x-1)
general form:
y-y1=m(x-x1)

3.standard form:
example:
3x-y=-2
is useful for knowing the y-intercept and the x intercept which means it will make it easier for us to graph this relationship.
general form:
ax+by=c

NOTE: if you want to get rid of fractions on an equations to simplfy it you can multiply both sides by the numbers in the dunminator of each fraction.

Absolute Value:
is the distence between a real number a and 0

General Rules:
:= means assignement

System of Equations:
are 2 equations or more that are solvable together

Basics:
NOTE: when evaluting an expression that involves division and multiplication if one of the multiplication factors has a parenthsis around it the multiplication should be evaluated first then the division even though the division is the first operation when applying from left to right rule.

Props of Real numbers:
1.cummutative property of addtion:
a + b = b + a: in addtion, the order of the operands does not matter

2.cummutative propery of multiplication:
a*b = b*a: in multiplication, the order of the operands does not matter

3.associative property of addtion:
(a+b)+c = a+(b+c): the order of operations does not matter

4.associative property of multiplication:
(ab)c = a(bc): the order of operations does not matter

5.distributive property:
a(b+c) = ab + ac

6.additive identity:
a + 0 = a: adding any real number to the additive identity will always gives you the same number

7.multplictive identity:
a*1=a: multiplying any real number to the multiplicative identity will always give you the same number

8.addtive inverse:
a+(-a) = 0: when you add a real number to its additive inverse it will give you the additive identity

9.multiplicative inverse:
a*1/a = 1: when you multiply a real number by its multiplicative inverse it will give you the multiplicative identity

NOTE:
a set of numbers, operations with these numbers and the properties of these numbers
these 3 components forms a mathmetical system

NOTE:
Once you have determined the basic properties (or axioms) of a mathematical
system, you can go on to develop other properties. These additional properties are
theorems, and the formal arguments that justify the theorems are proofs.


Translating a verbal phrase into a mathematical model is critical in problem
solving. The next four examples will demonstrate three steps for creating a
mathematical model.

In mathematics, it is useful to know how to represent certain types of integers
algebraically. For instance, consider the set of even integers.
Because every even integer has 2 as a factor,
it follows that any integer n multiplied by 2 is sure to be the even number 2n.
Moreover, if 2n is even, then 2n-1 and 2n+1 are sure to be odd integers.

In System of Linear Equations:
there are 2 types of systems "consistent system of equation" which has a solution and "inconsistent system of equation" which has no solution or in other words the 2 lines that represents both equations do not intersect.
but under consistent system of equations we have 2 scenarios: the first one is one the 2 lines intersect in only 1 point and the other scenario is when the 2 lines are intersecting in all points which means that they both are the same line. so we differentiate between these 2 scenarios by calling the first case "independent" and the later one "depenedent".

Mathematical Modeling:
how algebra can be used to solve problems that occur
in real-life situations. This process is called mathematical modeling.

steps for mathemtical modeling:
Verbal description -> Verbal model -> Assign labels -> Algebraic equation

Ratios:
percentage is a spcecific comparison that always done between 100 and any other number, but on the other hand the ratio is a more generic comparison that compares any 2 numbers with each other.

Proportions:
A proportion is a statement that equates two ratios.
the product of means = the product of extremes

Strategy for Solving Word Problems
1. Ask yourself what you need to know to solve the problem. Then write a
verbal model that includes arithmetic operations to describe the problem.
2. Assign labels to each part of the verbal model—numbers to the known
quantities and letters (or expressions) to the variable quantities.
3. Use the labels to write an algebraic model based on the verbal model.
4. Solve the resulting algebraic equation.
5. Answer the original question and check that your answer satisfies the
original problem as stated.

in a mathemtical models of a bussiness problem that consisits of a fixed term and a variable term, the variable term consists of a product of 2 factors, one of these factors is a rate or a percent